---
title: Iodine-125
collection: spectrum
#date: 2022-06-06 21:00:00 +0200
last_modified_at: 2023-07-07 22:30:00 +0200

---

Of the thirty-seven known isotopes of iodine, only one occurs in nature, iodine-127. The others are radioactive and have half-lives too short to be primordial. As such, iodine is both monoisotopic and mononuclidic and its atomic weight is known to great precision, as it is a constant of nature.

The gamma-emitting isotopes iodine-123 (half-life 13 hours), and (less commonly) the longer-lived and less energetic iodine-125 (half-life 59 days) are used as nuclear imaging tracers to evaluate the anatomic and physiologic function of the thyroid. Abnormal results may be caused by disorders such as Graves' disease or Hashimoto's thyroiditis. Both isotopes decay by electron capture (EC) to the corresponding tellurium nuclides, but in neither case are these the metastable nuclides <sup>123m</sup>Te and <sup>125m</sup>Te (which are of higher energy, and are not produced from radioiodine). Instead, the excited tellurium nuclides decay immediately (half-life too short to detect). Following EC, the excited <sup>123</sup>Te from <sup>123</sup>I emits a high-speed 127 keV internal conversion electron (not a beta ray) about 13% of the time, but this does little cellular damage due to the nuclide's short half-life and the relatively small fraction of such events. In the remainder of cases, a 159 keV gamma ray is emitted, which is well-suited for gamma imaging.

<sup>125</sup>I is used as the radiolabel in investigating which ligands go to which plant pattern recognition receptors (PRRs).

### Spectrum ([Fullscreen](/assets/spectra/I-125.html))

<iframe width="100%" height="500" src="/assets/spectra/I-125.html" title="I-125 gamma spectrum" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
5 minute measurement with a High Purity Germanium (HPGe) radiation detector.

### Metadata

| Isotope: | Iodine |
| --- | --- |
| Mass number: | 125 |
| Atomic number: | 53 |
| Neutron number: | 72 |
| ... | ... |

### Sources and Further Read

- [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iodine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iodine)
- [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isotopes_of_iodine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isotopes_of_iodine)

