---
title: Lutetium-177(m)
collection: spectrum
#date: 2022-06-07 21:00:00 +0200
last_modified_at: 2022-08-08 14:00:00 +0200

---

Naturally occurring lutetium (<sub>71</sub>Lu) is composed of one stable isotope <sup>175</sup>Lu (97.41% natural abundance) and one long-lived radioisotope, <sup>176</sup>Lu with a half-life of 3.78 × 10<sup>10</sup> years (2.59% natural abundance). Thirty-five radioisotopes have been characterized, with the most stable, besides <sup>176</sup>Lu, being <sup>174</sup>Lu with a half-life of 3.31 years, and <sup>173</sup>Lu with a half-life of 1.37 years. All of the remaining radioactive isotopes have half-lives that are less than 9 days, and the majority of these have half-lives that are less than half an hour. This element also has 18 meta states, with the most stable being <sup>177m</sup>Lu (t<sub>1/2</sub> 160.4 days), <sup>174m</sup>Lu (t<sub>1/2</sub> 142 days) and <sup>178m</sup>Lu (t<sub>1/2</sub> 23.1 minutes). 

Lutetium (<sup>177</sup>Lu) chloride is a radioactive compound used for the radiolabeling of pharmaceutical molecules, aimed either as an anti-cancer therapy or for scintigraphy (medical imaging). It is an isotopomer of lutetium(III) chloride containing the radioactive isotope <sup>177</sup>Lu, which undergoes beta decay with a half-life of 6.65 days.

Lutetium (<sup>177</sup>Lu) chloride is a radiopharmaceutical precursor and is not intended for direct use in patients. It is used for the radiolabeling of carrier molecules specifically developed for reaching certain target tissues or organs in the body. The molecules labeled in this way are used as cancer therapeutics or for scintigraphy, a form of medical imaging. <sup>177</sup>Lu has been used with both small molecule therapeutic agents (such as <sup>177</sup>Lu-DOTATATE) and antibodies for targeted cancer therapy.

### Spectrum

<iframe width="100%" height="500" src="/assets/spectra/Lu-177m.html" title="Lu-177m gamma spectrum" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
Spectrum of <sup>177m</sup>Lu and <sup>177</sup>Lu in a sample.
5 minute measurement with a High Purity Germanium (HPGe) radiation detector.

<iframe width="100%" height="500" src="/assets/spectra/Lu-177.html" title="Lu-177 gamma spectrum" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
This sample has been cleaned of <sup>177m</sup>Lu, therefore the peaks are <sup>177</sup>Lu only.
5 minute measurement with a High Purity Germanium (HPGe) radiation detector.

### Metadata

| Isotope: | Lutetium |
| --- | --- |
| Mass number: | 177 |
| Atomic number: | 71 |
| Neutron number: | 106 |
| ... | ... |

### Sources and Further Read

- [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lutetium#Isotopes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lutetium#Isotopes)
- [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isotopes_of_lutetium](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isotopes_of_lutetium)
- <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lutetium_(177Lu)_chloride">https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lutetium_(177Lu)_chloride</a>

